Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans: They are building blocks of programs, scripts, commands, etc, in order to create software applications for computing devices to execute. 

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans: JDK, or Java Development Kit, is a set of development tools needed to run Java. It consists of JRE, the IDE (java), complier (javac), libraries
and operating systems, JVM and the operating system. 

What is IDE?
Ans: IDE is the Integrated Development Environment. This is a program like eclipse or intellij, which allow code to be run in proper syntax. 
These programs allow for auto-syntax to appear as well. For example, something like "public class Holiday {" will always auto appear when creating a class for
Java.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans: Eclipse, IntelliJ, BlueJ, NetBeans, (Oracle) JDeveloper, DrJava. 

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans: 1- Editing the program. You can use a text editor such as Sublime Text, or even Notepad++. You write your code, then save it. 
2- Compile the source code. which then becomes javac. To do so, you make sure the file is saved with ".java" at the end of its name. 
3- Executing the byte code. It gets executed once the code is compiled, and it will be outputted by the JVM. 

what is class?
Ans: It is a template that describes the data and behavior associated with the instances of that class. It is used to create objects to do such instances. 

What is object?
Ans: Objects are modules that contain data and instructions. They are essentially the traits of a class.  

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans: It is the main method, which is the start of the program. No matter where public static void main is in the program, Java will always output it first.

Why main is static?
Ans: It's due to the fact Java has to have a single main entry point for the JVM, otherwise it will produce an error. Java always needs it to be static,
so it can load with or without object creation. 

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: Java.lang.Object is the superclass. It is the main class where other classes get information to and from. 

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans: Classpath is used in the JVM to determine the location of the required class files. Path is used to prodivde a path for other Java tools, like javac or javadoc.  

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?\
Ans: Abstract class hides internal features of an application and only shows the user the functionality aspects. Interface class is a collection of abstract methods 
that contain constants, default methods, static methods and nested types. 

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: You cannot because they are incomplete classes. For abstract class, you implement a class (which is not abstract), and for interface class, you need a class
which will implement the bodies. Identifiers such as the "food" method can be used to achieve this. 

what is Access Specifier?
They regulate access to classes, fields, and methods in Java. The different types are:
Private- only accessible in that specific class
Default- no access specifier
Public- accessible and visible to everyone. 
Protected- accessible to that package and subclasses. 

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: OOP (Object Oriented Programming) use objects in proframming. It's purpose is to bind together the data and functions that operate on them exclusive to that class. Features include:
Classes- blueprint for all objects 
Objects- contains variables (holds data) and methods (defines behaviors)
Abstraction- shows only relevant data to the user 
Encapsulation- binding object fields and methods together in a single class
Inheritance- one class inherits the properties of another class 
Polymorphism- object behaves differently in different situations. There is two types: method overloading and method overriding. 

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: Packages group together related classes created within it. Java API has a build-in default one, java.lang, and it is automatically imported by javac. 

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: API (application programming interface) defines interactions. Some that we have used so far are import, or packages. 

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: It does not. Java language creators decided not to add it because it was too complex, and did nothing to benefit the program. 

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: Method overloading is a feature that allows a class to have multiple methods in the same name. For example, int myMethod (int x). 

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans: Exceptions in java occur when an unwanted event occurs in the flow of the program, like errors in the code. One way to catch exceptions is to use the try/catch method to protect the code and create an exception for it to run. 

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans: Static is a constant that can be used to refer to the common property of all objects. It can be a variable, method, block, or nested class. It can be accessed at any time, and it's beneficial because it is memory efficient. 

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans: It is a non-access modifier used only for variables, methods and classes. They are used to create constant variables, prevents method overriding, and prevent inheritance. It is a constant, like static methods, and it cannot be modified once declared.   

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: Final is a keyword to use with class method and variable. it cannot be changed, overriden or reassigned.  
Finally is a keyword to create a block of code that follows a try block. It always executes, regardless of an exception occurring or not. 
Finalize is a method to use prior to object creation. 

What is a constructor ?
Ans: It is used to initialize onjects. It is called once the object of the class is created. They are instances, but not methods, because it does not have a return type. 

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans: You can have multiple consructors in a class, but they need to be different parameter types. 

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans: If a class does not declare one constructor, Java automatically provides a default constructor. it calls the class parent's object constructor if the class has no other parent. 

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: It refers to the current object being called. 

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans: It is a reference variable which is used to access of the field of parent class. It is used if parent class and child class have the same fields. 

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: JVM (Java Virtual Machine) manages system memory and provides an environment for java to be executed.   

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans: It is platform independent because of it's bytecode. It's beneficial because it makes Java a very portable language. It can be designed for diffrent operating systems and the bytecode will be able to run on different operating systems. 

What version of java are you using?
Ans: Jdk 13. 

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans: Java Archive. It is similar to a zip file, because it stores many different files into one file. 

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans: JDK (Java development kit) is used to develop java applications and physically exists. 
JVM is a virtual machine that doesn't physically exist. It provides an environemnt for Java to be executed. 

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans: The JVM loads code, verifies code, executes code, and provides a runtime environment. 
JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is a set of tools that are used to develop Java applications. Compared to JVM, it physically exists and it is an implementation of JVM. 

What is compile time and run time?
Ans: Compile time is the instance where the code converts to executable. Run time is the instance where the executable is running. These are also used to refer to different types of errors. 

What is heap?
Ans: It is a tree-like data structure normally used as an array. 
 
How java manage it's memory?
Ans: Java's memory area works by having different parts managing the memory. This includes heap works, reference types, and garbage collection. By having a system which retrieves and throws out data, it allows for Java to save memory. 

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans: A string is a class that represents sentences and statements. We represent them by putting them in double quotes. They are immutable, so string manipulation needs to be done. StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable objects that allow for string manipulation. StringBuffer changes the value of the object, and it is stored in heap. It is thread safe. The only difference between buffer and builder is that StringBuilder is not thread safe. 

What is Singleton class?
Ans: Singleton controls object creation by limiting it to only one object. They can only occur once per class. 

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans: It is the conversion of objects into a byte stream to transport the java objects from one JVM to another in order to recreate them to the original form. Recreating it from the byte stream to an actual java object is deserialization. Serialization is a helpful process because it saves the current state of an object, and helps an object travel across a network. 

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans: Transient is used as a variable modifier in serialization. If a value of a variable is not saved in a file, we use the transient keyword. Java will then ignore the value of the variable and save default value of that variable data type. 

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans: The while loop is done at the beginning of the loop, and if it is true, that is only when the statements in the loop will be executed. The do-while loop only runs if the first while loop fails, and it runs even if the condition is false. 

What is Enum?
Ans: It is a special class that represents constants. They have attributes and methods. The difference between enum and class is that enum constants are public, static, final, which cannot be changed. 

What is Iterator?
Ans: Iterators are used to loop various collections together. We commonly see them be used with HashMaps, ArrayLists, etc. They are different compared to enums because they allow the caller to remove elements, which is not possible with enum since they are constants. 

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: Integer takes a lot more memory because its 128 bits, wheras int takes up 32 bits. 

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans: They are immutable because of security, synchronization, caching, and class loading. 

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans: It is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor. It can either me done in the same class, or from the base class. Constructor chaining allows for multiple tasks to be performed in one single constructor, which allows for more readable code. 

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans: Serial garbage collector works by holding all the application threads, and only for single-threaded environments. It is used for single command lines. Parallel garbage collector is used for multiple threads in comparison to serial. Both of them work by freezing applications that are not suitable for the server environment. 

What is JIT stands for?
Ans: Just-in-time compiler is pat of the JRE, and it optimizes java based applications during runtime. 

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans: These are part of memory management. Objects reside inside the heap. When Java based applications are run, the JVM either increases or decreases in size. Once this becomes full, objects that are no longer in use are cleared via garbage collection, which then makes spaces for new objects. 

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans: No. The only way at getting the best chance at garbage collecting is with methods like System.gc() or Runtime.gc(). 

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans: Stack memory is used for static memory retention and to run a threat. Heap space is dynamic memory retention for Java objects and JRE classes during the runtime. 

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans: It is used to describe code which is able to inspect or modify runtime attributes in classes, interfaces, fields and methods. It is useful because when you don't know the names while trying to compile your code, it will come in handy. It can also invoke methods, or set field values. 

what is multithreading in java?
Ans: Multi-threading is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. benefits include efficient utlizing of single cpu systems, efficient utlization of multiple cpu systems, and improved user experience with respect to responsiveness and fairness. 

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans: It allows Java to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource. It is used to prevent thread inconsistencies and consistency problems in general. 

What is Framework?
Ans: They are used to develop applications which allow for focus on high-level functionality of the application. 

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: There are many different types, like JUnit, Selenium, Cucumber, DBUnit. 

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans: They are both frameworks for unit testing. In jUnit beforeclass and afterclass methods have to be declared as static. testNG doesn't have this constant. TestNG have four additional setup/teardown pairs for the suite, test and groups. 

What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans: Class/interface dependencies, compile, runtime, direct/indirect and jar dependencies. 

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans: It is a design pattern that allows us to remove hard-coded dependencies and make the application extendable and manageable. This helps java compile from compile-time to run time. 

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans: Static binding is when type of the object is determined at compiled time. When type of the object is determined a run-time, it is known as dynamic binding. 

