Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Data structures are used for efficiency for indexing. It allows for the process of data in the memory for efficient storage, access and processing. It's comprabale to a record system librarians use to log books. 

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
You can transverse, delete, update, search, merge, update and append data structures using operations. 

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler design, operating system, database management system, statistical analysis package, numerical analysis, graphics, artificial intelligence and simulation. 

what is an Array?
An array is used to store multiple values in a single variable, instead of using individual variables for each value. 

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Arrays are basic functionalities, wheras ArrayList is a collection framework in Java. 

what is LinkedList?
It is part of the collection framework where elements are storied in separate objects. These objects have elements within the LinkedList method that allow them to have locations. It is very easy to add, change, remove, and iterate objects within this framework. 

How is an Array different from Linked List?
LinkedLists are preferred over arrays because of how maleable it is to add and delete objects. Linkedlists contain an ordered collection of the same element, wheras arrays are randomly accessed using an index. 

what is queue?
Queue is an interface of Java framework which provides the dunctionality of the queue data structure. It extends the collection interface. They are used in classes with Arrays, LinkedLists and PriorityQueues. 

what is stack?
It is a linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects. It provides different operations, like push, pop, and search. It only defines the default constructor, which creates an empty stack. 

what is FIFO and LIFO?
First in first out and last in first out are used in stack. LIFO is when you add elements to the "top" of the stack, and remove elements from the top again. On the other hand, FIFO is when elements are added to the end of rhe queue, and removed from the beginning of the queue. 

what is the order of complexity?
It is an algorithm which measures the actual time required in executing each statement in the code. 

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Linear search is the easiest search algorithm because it involves sequential searching for an element in the given data structure until either the element is found. 

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
The worst is O(n) because for an unsorted array, you have to search element by element, until the element is found which is very tedious. If the element is not in the array, there would be a need to traverse the whole array giving many repetitions of loops. 

what is tree in data structure?
It is an binary data type that shows child trees from one parent node. They are all linked together in a hierarchial fashion. 

what is graph in data structure?
It is a tree-like structure which is non linear and consists of nodes and edges. They represent networks in the form of nodes. These graphs are used to solve problems in real life because the networks can represent different objects. 

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
HashMap is not synchronized, which means it is not thread-safe and cannot be shared within many threads. HashTables are synchronized, which means it is safe. HashMap allows for one null key and multiple null values, where HashTable doesn't allow for any null key or value. IIt doesn't allow for nulls because nulls are not an object, and objects must be used as keys in order to retrieve the method.  

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS Array, network data model graph, hierarchical data model trees. 

How HashMap works in java?
It implements the map interface which stores data in a pair of key (usually int) and value (usually string). 

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
This appears to indicate when an array has been summoned with the wrong index. It is not equal to the array, which is why it says "out of bounds." 

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
1. Manually- copy elements one by one 
2. Arrays.copyOf()- copy one array to another by using this method 
3. System.arraycopy()- directly copies from one array using this syntax
4. Object.clone()- which clones the array to another copy. 

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
LinkedLists are preferred over arrays because of how maleable it is to add and delete objects. Linkedlists contain an ordered collection of the same element, wheras arrays are randomly accessed using an index. 

What is DFS and BFS?
BFS (breadth first search) is a vertex based technique for finding the shortest path in a graph. It uses the queue data structure which follows first in first out. DFS (depth first search) is an edge based technique. It follows the stack data structure, where the first verticies are pushed into stach and second if there is no vertices. 

What is Recursion?
Recursion is making a function call itself. 

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Linear data structures are arranged in order on a single level. Examples include arrays, queues and linked lists.
Non linear data structures are when data structures are not arranged in order and with no single levels present. Examples include trees and graphs. 

What is Big-(O)-notation?
It is the theoretical measure of execution of an algorithm, so that involves measuring the time or memory needed. 

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, heap sort, quick sort, merge sort, bucket sort, radix sort. 

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.

Arrays:
Pros- easy to create, easy to use; direct indexing O(1); Sequential access O(N)
Cons- Sorting: O(NLogN); Searching: O(N), and O(LogN) if sorted; Inserting and deleting: O(N) because of shifting items 

LinkedList:
Pros- Inserting and deleting O(1); Sequential access O(N)
Cons- No direct access, only sequential access; Searching O(N); Sorting O(NLogN)

Stacks and Queues: 
Pros- Push/Add O(1); Pop/Remove O(1); Peek O(1) 
Cons- You can't pull item from the middle. 

HashTables:
Pros- Insering and deleting, Hashing and Indexing; Direct Access O(1) + Hashing & Indexing
Cons- Some overhead as require a little more space in memory than arrays; Retrieval of elements doesn't guarantee a specific order; searching for a value (without knowing it's key). 

Sets: 
Pros- Checking membership, value existence; Avoids duplicates
Cons- Sets are intentionally limited. You literally can't do anything with them. 

Binary Search Trees:
Pros- Inserting and deleting; speed of access; maintains sorted order; retrieval of elements is in order 
Cons- Some overhead because of their creation and management 

Heaps: 
Pros- Find Mix/Find Max O(1); Inserting O(LogN), Delete Min/Delete Max O(LogN)
Cons- Searching and deleting O(N) 
